Hello and thanks for joining us on another edition of Veterans of the Valley.
You know, he grew up in a small Texas town amid the gently rolling hills of the coastal plains down around Victoria, Cuero, Goliad, if you're familiar with that area of DeWitt County.
A little place called Yorktown, Texas.
And by the way, it's the home of the annual Western Days Festival.
And it's still there and you can google it if you feel the urge.
He went to Texas A&M.
He was the class of 1944B and he joined the Army Air Corps and flew 35 missions in a B-17 bomber.
THe type of plane made famous by movies like 12 O'Clock High with Gregory Peck and the Memphis Bell.
Veterans of the Valley welcomes B-17 bomber pilot Taylor Riedel to today's show.
Taylor, thank you for joining us.
Thank you.
Pick us up from basically Texas A&M, the class of 44, and you joined the Army Air Corps.
What transpired after that?
I got called on to active duty shortly in 43.
And I was actually, strange, I was a class of 44 at A&M.
I was in the class of 44B with Air Corps in the cadet training program, which meant that I was scheduled to get my wings in February of 44.
So I started my training in...
February of 43.
In 43?
43.
They first sent us, like anyone else who joins the service, to a basic training facility out in Wichita Falls, Shepherd Field.
And we were there about six weeks doing normal Army stuff while training.
Learning to march.
Learning to march, that's right.
Then they sent us from there out to California to
to kind of schedule, see what they wanted to do.
Now, was that King City, California?
No, this was... I can't think of the name of it right now.
Anyway, we would just say a short period of time.
And they instituted a new program at that time where
instead of sending you directly into your pre-flight training and so forth they sent sent you to various universities in the country for training and since it was a new program they set it up for uh it's a three months program but they set it up the first group it went were six weeks the second one two months and the third one three months so they could kind of ramped it up it ramped it up and there they gave you all kind of tests and things and determine whether to assign you to uh
pilot training, or navigator training, or bomber training, or bombardier training, whatever.
And from there, then you start your training.
And I was lucky and drew pilot training.
Did you have a preference before that?
Yeah, I had a preference.
And what was that?
My preference was to fly a P-38, you know, that was a twin engine fighter.
They didn't make that decision at that time.
Everybody took the same primary training.
So we went to King City, California for primary training.
Primary flight training.
We flew a little, like a cub type plane.
Then after you completed that, if you did, they sent you to basic training, and that was also out in California.
And from there, then they sent you to advanced training, and that's when I found out that they had assigned me to a four-engine
training instead of two engine for the P-30.
And that was out in what, Douglas, Arizona?
Douglas, Arizona.
Right.
Yeah.
Excuse me, I said California, Douglas, Arizona.
Okay.
It's where we actually did the training.
And Douglas, Arizona was right on the border from Mexico.
You could walk back and forth across the bridge, Kingman and Douglas.
So we, I mean, Pedro Snaggers.
Okay.
Yeah, so that's where, now that was Douglas, Arizona.
Yeah, okay.
Anyway, we took primary flight training, I mean, four-engine flight training.
Actually, it was two-engine, but we were preparing for it.
Then they sent us out to Salt Lake City for a short period of time to kind of assemble the crews and do some basic flight training.
Okay, so there, that's where you basically formed your, what, 10-man crew?
Yeah, right, 10-man crew, yeah.
So that's where you get your crew together, and then what happened?
Well, then they sent us to Ardmore, Oklahoma, to do quite a bit of flight training in the B-17.
And from Ardmore, Oklahoma, then we were assigned
to go overseas.
So we left Ardmore and went to Lincoln, Nebraska and picked up a B-17 and flew it into Scotland, Newfoundland and Greenland.
So what's your early 20s at that point in time and the Army Air Corps is fixing to turn a B-17 bomber over to you and nine other gentlemen to
And fly basically across the ocean and land it someplace in Britain.
Right, right.
What was going through your head about that time?
Oh, well, you know, we were excited about it.
We weren't looking forward to combat as such, but we were excited in getting on with the war.
How long of a flight was that?
Do you remember going from that?
That's quite a ways over the water.
Well, we landed.
We landed at Greenland.
In Greenland.
Yeah.
And I think we landed in Nova Scotia, too, and picked up fuel and then went to Greenland.
And from Greenland, we flew into Scotland, and we turned the aircraft over
to the 8th Air Force there.
I got you.
That's a lot of traveling for a young man from Yorktown, Texas.
Right.
What was going through your head of going through all these places and then all of a sudden ending up in Great Britain?
Oh, it was great fun.
That part was good.
It was exciting.
So where did you put down at in England there for the... In Scotland.
In Scotland.
I don't...
Remember, actually, we just landed it and left the plane, and then they assigned us to the 306 bomb group, which was located in Luton, which is on the main railway line between London and Scotland, about 30 minutes out of London.
So we were stationed only about 30 minutes from London.
Oh, that was pretty good duty, though.
Oh, yeah, that was good duty.
Did you visit London much?
Yeah, we sure did.
We got frequent passes, and we'd go down, just go down to the train station, get on the train, and go into London.
And you were also part of the 306th Bomb Group, but you were also part of what was, I believe, the 423rd Bomb Squadron.
Tell us a little bit about the 423rd.
Well, the 423rd was...
They had been over there quite a while.
They're one of the early groups to go over, and they have three squadrons in each group.
Or four, is it?
I don't know, anyway.
And how many planes are in a squadron?
Well, on a combat mission, there are 12.
Okay.
Is that normal?
Yeah.
Basically in groups of six, three.
Okay.
And six, three up and three down, and then you had one, two, three of those forming the squadron.
What was the significance of up and down?
Well, with the armament on the B-17, the ball turret gunner, the tail gunner, the
the side gun and so forth, it set up a field of fire around that group of planes to protect you from the German fighters.
So that's what that maintained.
What was, when you got your call to do your very first mission, I believe, over to Cannes, France, what was going through you and your crew's head?
Oh, of course, we were excited and apprehensive.
We were thankful, though, that we'd got an assignment to Cannes
France instead of somewhere in Germany.
Somewhere deep within Germany, right?
On the first mission, yeah.
So did everything go okay that first mission?
Yeah, it went fine.
Take us through a normal day, because you didn't fly every day, right?
No, no, no, no.
About every other two, three days, something like that?
Well, you see, I threw 35 missions, and I was over there from June to about a year to fly those.
What happened?
The night before a mission, they would post on a bullet board all the crews that were assigned to fly the next morning.
They didn't say where you were going or anything like that, just that you were scheduled to be in the group.
And they would awaken you about 2 o'clock in the morning.
You'd go down and have breakfast, and then you'd go to a briefing, and then you'd...
check your airplane, get everything going.
And that took a period from about two o'clock till, say, six o'clock.
And then you take off normally around six or seven o'clock, fly, and then come back about eight hours later normally.
Okay.
What goes on in the aircraft
With you and your crew, sometimes you're going for quite a long ways before you actually get to your target.
Is there much chatter?
Is there a lot of checkoffs that go on in the B-17?
Just normal yam, you know, with 10 guys in there and talking about that various thing.
Right.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, tell us, what about any of the...
particular mission really stick out in your head of things that maybe made it a little bit more dicey or other missions that were more leisurely?
I hate to use that word, but obviously if you're not flying deep into the heart of Germany, you're not going to get that much AAA.
Well, the missions you didn't look forward to, so to speak, you always had 35
in front of your mind that you said, well, this is one and I've got 34 more to go and so forth.
So you always often hope for a mission to Belgium or France or someplace like that.
And the ones that you were, you went deep into Germany, Berlin, for example, would be a hairy one because they protected Berlin the best they could.
And those were tough.
Let's jump back a little bit.
Talk about London.
You went into London.
What about some of the nighttime bombing that we all hear about and the V1 and the V2 rockets?
Well, of course, if you were to go down and go into London, and everybody traveled a lot by subway and so forth, and they were various layers underneath the ground, and they were lined with all the subway platforms.
back were lined with bunks.
And the British people would come down, leave their houses above and come down and spend the night in there for protection from the German bombing.
Well, toward the last of the war, the German bombers didn't come over much anymore because we had established air superiority.
But they came up with two
robots i guess you like a better term right yeah v1 and v2 the v2 was like a little old uh piper cub or something and it it had made a funny sound a putt putt putt putt putt and it flew along and as long as you could hear that putt putt putt you you knew you're all right because it was still flying but when it stopped the putt putt that meant it was going into a glide right and would come down
Now you couldn't do that with the V2 because they were faster than sound and you didn't hear them until they exploded.
Anything else?
No.
I understand there was a little bit of trepidation, I guess, from your mother back at home when you had talked to her and she told your friends basically that you were basically the pilot of a B-17.
And what was their response?
I found that rather... Oh, that was true.
Well, of course, you have to realize in a small town like I grew up in that everybody knew everybody.
And not only did my mother know me, but the neighbor knew me and various ones did.
One neighbor lady told my mother, and my mother relayed over to me, said, you know, I just don't know about our government.
They're entrusting a big, expensive aircraft like that to Taylor.
Did you get to go back later and say, see, I could do it?
No, I don't.
I don't think she told me who it was.
Who said that?
No.
We've got some pictures.
Let's go ahead and let them load up the pictures.
And you can tell us a few.
We've got some really interesting stuff that you were able to give to us.
And let's see what the first one looks like coming up here.
Tell us what this is.
Oh, this is a publication that the 8th Air Force put out about the 8th Air Force telling what they were doing and how they were doing.
More or less like a public relations?
Yeah, public relations type.
Now, was this...
publication, was it for the people on, it was for the Americans, for the Flyboys and for our side.
Yeah, right, right.
Did anything ever go on nowadays where you drop pamphlets to the enemy, that kind of thing?
Oh, yeah.
Did y'all do much?
Yeah, you did.
That was considered a pretty good mission, too.
Okay.
You just go in there and drop some pamphlets.
Do you remember what any of the pamphlets said?
No, not particularly.
Not particularly?
Okay.
Let's get back to the pictures and see what was coming up next.
Now this is the, I guess for lack of a better term, this was the centerfold of that same publication.
And as you can see, it kind of, we've got the original here and it actually tells you
of what all the numbers were about how many bombs were dispatched.
You can see the number there.
I guess that's 221,811.
How many bombs were dropped?
443,969.
How often did this publication come out?
Do you remember?
I don't know.
I don't know that it gives any...
This, I don't think it does, but I just noticed to see it's signed by Jimmy Doolittle.
I was noticing that it is signed by Mr. Doolittle, so that's incredible pretty much.
Let's go over to the next picture.
Okay, and where are you in this picture?
I'm on the far left.
You're the far left, and do you remember where this was at?
This was in one officer's quarters over in England.
Okay, so this was in England.
Yeah.
And tell us who the other gentlemen are.
Well, you know, I'm blank on the two in the middle, but the one on the end, the name was Harry Quint, and he's from California, and after he got out of the service, he went to dental school.
Right, and he's still around.
He still lives.
Yeah, Harry's still alive.
Interesting little sideline on Harry.
He didn't have a middle name or a middle initial.
And in the service, if you didn't, they'd put, like, Harry, N-M-I, no middle initial, Quint.
I can see where this is going.
So Harry picked up a nun.
People would say, if you answer, they called your name Harry.
he'd say none.
Middle initial, he'd say none.
So Harry's nickname was none, Harry Nunn Quint.
That's pretty good.
Do you keep in touch with him?
I have in the past.
I haven't talked to him in a while.
Okay.
And now look at this picture.
That's right off of a poster board there.
That is.
That was taken in primary training.
Okay.
So, so how old were you in that picture right there?
Do you remember?
Well, I was born in 1921.
So that, and that was in 44.
So you're 22 about, I guess.
Yeah.
Depending on what, when your birthday was the year, it would have been 21, 22.
Good looking pilot has ACE written all over it.
Describe this picture for us.
Well, this is a target picture.
What they did when we left the base, come back to the States, if you wanted, they'd give you a copy of all the, if you buy them 35 times, they'd give you the mission photos, one of them, each one,
But they wouldn't let you write on the back of it what it was or what the location they just had it.
And that's one of them of a target over Germany.
Oh, someplace over Germany.
And now, as you can see, obviously, the before picture, that was the night.
You could see the river curving on the right part of the screen.
And obviously now you see that big kind of blotch there right over the river.
Those are the bombs dropping, correct?
Yes, that was the bombs.
They probably were detecting a bridge or a...
manufacturing facility located right there on the river.
And the same thing here, right?
Just another aerial of, and the white stuff you see there is not really clouds below you.
That's probably fires and stuff coming up from bombs that have been dropped.
Right, right, yeah.
Exploited.
All of your missions were during the day, correct?
Right, yeah.
Because I believe the British flew mostly at night.
Was there a reason for that?
Well, the British didn't fly in formation and so forth like we did.
They flew in a string, you know.
Single line type.
Yeah.
And they didn't want to fly.
The British didn't particularly want to fly in the daytime.
And the Americans took that over and protected that, so to speak.
One other thing to look at here, this is, and for the viewers, they can't really read it, but what it is, is it's called the operational sortie record.
And this basically logs every single flight that you had, and you can go right down the list, and we can look at the different cities you bombed around Germany, and in France, and in Holland.
And then down at the bottom, it says 35, so they sign off on it, and you've got your ticket home, more or less, I guess, is how that works.
And this, describe this picture for us.
Well, it's just a picture of a B-17, and on the tail, you'll see a triangle with an H in it, and that was for the 306 bomb group.
Okay.
Was there anything on that plane that designated the 423rd, or was it just always the 306th?
No, it was always the 306th.
Okay.
Yeah.
Now describe this to us.
You told me an interesting little story about this patch, which we actually have the patch with us here.
Yeah.
Well, all the squadrons had an insignia patch.
This is the patch for the 423rd.
423rd.
And you put it on your jacket, you know, that.
leather jacket that you have.
But the Germans took offense at that particular figure there.
I guess you'd call it a ghost or a devil or whatever it was.
And so there were some people, U.S.
people said, well, we think they'd put anybody who has to bail out
and is taken prisoner if they had their jacket on that had this particular patch on it that might subject them to.
So you didn't get to wear your patch?
No.
Well, they didn't give you, by the time I got over there, they quit giving that patch out until you left.
So you couldn't wear it, I guess, yeah.
So when you left, they gave it to you.
Okay, now you've just brought this to us, and what is this?
I find this interesting.
This is a cockpit of the B-17.
And so obviously you would be on the left-hand side, where you can see the wheel.
Do you remember what most of those instruments are?
Well, see, it had four engines.
So there are four dials up there that give the airspeed, I mean, the RPMs, and four of them that give the oil pressure and all that.
So they're really kind of a duplicate of a lot of them there.
But it was fairly complicated.
procedure.
Tell us a little bit, I believe your 30th mission had a little bit of a quirk in it, so to speak.
Fill us in on that 30th mission.
And by the way, let's see, your 30th mission was to... Yes, thank you.
I can't pronounce that.
But obviously it was in Germany.
And just to let the viewers know, it says here that it lasted about eight and a half hours.
Right, that's correct.
So fill us in on mission number 30, which you were five short of getting out.
Yeah, well, we went in over Belgium and up lower through the lower part of Germany up into Germany to bomb this deal.
And by the time we got to this point in the year, there were not many German fighters still operational.
Skies were pretty clear.
Skies were pretty clear, and so your main problem was anti-aircraft fire.
And their best weapon was an 88 millimeter anti-aircraft gun that they used.
And so we were about 25,000 feet, I guess, going over this target, 20, 25,000, I'm not sure.
And an 88 millimeter shell went up through the wing
about, oh, about from here to that flag, and went through the gas tank.
So that's no more than maybe eight to ten feet out your window.
Yeah, right.
And it went up above.
Fortunately, it didn't explode until it got above us, and it exploded, but it didn't cause any further damage to the aircraft.
But in going through the wing, I did two things.
It ruptured the gas tank, and so we had gasoline spilling out of the ruptured gas tank.
The other thing it did, you control the pitch on your propeller with a hydraulic system so you can, you know, different speeds.
Right.
And it ruptured those lines to that and the engine, the left, the number two engine started windmilling now.
When windmilling, that means it just turned free.
Right.
You didn't have any control over it.
No control over it.
It started going real fast, faster it got.
Finally it had enough friction to start a fire in that particular engine.
It's time to get out of the plant, sounds like to me.
We were about over Belgium coming back at that time, and we kept looking out, and I finally looked, I said, well, we need to get out of here because there's raw gasoline pouring out of the gas tank, and there's a fire there.
So I gave the signal to bail out.
And we all bailed out.
We were about, oh, 18,000 feet, I guess, when we bailed out.
And everybody landed okay.
The entire crew made it back?
Yeah.
You landed in Belgium?
They picked you up and got you back.
You took a little R&R?
Yeah.
Interesting R&R.
They sent us out to a country estate outside of London, and it was owned by Lord Montbatten.
And his wife was there at the time we...
did our R&R, so I got to meet her and play a little cards with her.
So you got through your 35th mission, anything particular about that last mission or were you just ready to get home?
No, we were just ready to get home.
It was a shorter, it wasn't almost 8 hours and 70 minutes.
Yeah, a lot of your last ones were rather long.
Yeah, I had a total of 351 combat hours in 35 missions.
Part of them didn't, the reason it's more than 35 times 10, say, which would be 36.
Some of them you'd go and come back, you know, and it wouldn't count.
Some missions would be scrubbed, you know, because of weather or other conditions.
We've got just a couple of minutes left.
Is there anything else that you can think of?
No, well, I'll tell you interesting.
I got back in 45.
I came down back to A&M in September of 45 to get my degree.
In the meanwhile, I got married and we lived over, interestingly enough, on the fourth floor of Walton Hall where they made a
They turned it into, I believe, married.
Married.
Veterans.
Married veterans, yeah.
And that's a whole other story in itself.
That's a whole story.
We've actually run out of time.
Oh, my.
Yeah, it goes quick, doesn't it?
Goes quick.
Sure does.
It sure does.
See, I told you.
I want to thank you for being here with us today, and we appreciate it.
Well, I appreciate you inviting me so much.
Absolutely.
It's our pleasure.
On 8 August 1944, he flew his first mission in a B-17 to Cannes, France.
On 7 March 1945, he flew his 35th and final mission to Gießen, Germany, for about a total of 290 combat hours.
And he had to ditch just one plane during that time.
We salute Taylor Riedel for the commitment he made back in 1944.
He served his country and did the job he was trained to do, and he did it quite admirably.
Shake the hand of someone you see in the armed forces.
Let them know you appreciate the commitment that they have made.
Until next time on Veterans of the Valley, for the entire KMU-TV crew, Mr. Riedel and Tom Turbiville, I'm Kyle Netterville.
So long.